[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: I'd like to close out by
helping you guys understand what we mean
when we say Ember 2, where are things
right now, how do we get here,
and give you guys a little insight and
sneak peak into what's coming soon.
So there are no new features in Ember 2.0.
The idea is that late in the 1.x cycle,
major enhancements
were added,
major alternate paths to doing things.
An example is the computed
property syntax where
we can pass an object with a get and
set function.
Instead of just a function and
look at arity in order to figure out
are we in getter or setter mode?
So that was introduced in like 1.12,
and as new stuff was introduced,
stuff that we were trying to
get rid of was deprecated and
all that happened between
the last 1.x release,
1.13 and 2.0 is all of
the deprecated code was removed.
And this is important to realize
in terms of understanding
Ember's commitment to productivity and
to developer economics.
So the idea was that if you had a one 113
app running, and you had no deprecation
warnings, you were going to be
able to painlessly upgrade to 2.0.
And for the most part,
that was successful, and certainly,
you know It was a commitment made from
the community that contributes to Ember,
to each other and
to the other people who consume it.
So I think that that contrasts
with some other, you know,
other things that really
don't have a strong,
a as strong an idea of making sure
that you can keep pace with things and
making sure that you don't
have to throw things out.
And it's been a big part of why people
are confident to kind of stick with Ember.
So here's what was introduced
in the last couple 1.x releases.
We had HTMLbars in 1.10 which
was a switch towards admitting
document fragments instead of
admitting strings from handle bars.
1.11 introduced attribute bindings, so
before that we had to use a handle
bars helper called bind adder.
It was quite messy and kind of was,
the introduction of attribute bindings
brought us closer in parity with,
you know, writing handlebars
like we write HTML where
we are just doing key equals value and
it sort of makes a lot more sense.
1.12, we got some great computed
property improvements 1.13 was big.
That's when the new rendering engine, the
reactive rendering engine landed that's.
That was a huge performance
improvement for views where re-renders
were common where you had a lot of
different components on the screen.
And then again 2.0, just yank out
the stuff that's deprecated and
we're left with what we're left with.
And there's a big commitment
to aligning with SemVer.
And if you guys don't know what
SemVer is it's the triple digit
versioning system where you have major,
minor, and trivial version.
And the idea is that anything that
currently works in 2.0 will not break.
Any public API that works in
2.0 will not break until 3.0.
And so if you're sticking to the public
stuff as outlined in the documentation,
that's a solid foundation
to build on until we start
doing massive changes again which
will be quite a while from now.
So coming soon and
like there's no way to say whether this
is going to be 2.4 or 3.1 or what.
But these are things
that are in the works.
RFCs with a lot of steam behind them.
Things that already have a lot
of work being channeled to them.
So this is this concept of
angle bracket components.
And it's really an effort
to bring ember components
even further in alignment with
what we're used to seeing in HTML.
And you see here this is an example
of what an angle bracket
component could look like.
We've lost the handlebars.
We're gonna lose the concept
of this wrapping
dom element because sometimes you
don't want that in a component.
Sometimes you want a component that's
a couple of things stacked on top
of each other.
And forcing people to nest and
nest and nest sometimes undesirable.
We're dropping the concept of controllers
once we can have routable components,
and once the queryParam
situation is figured out.
So the next thing is fastboot.
This is ember's server-side
rendering future set.
The current state of fastboot is
that it works as an ember add-on.
And the current way that it
works is you have a no js server
that will generate html for a real.
Like rendered view instead of just
an empty index.html that your
application will be you know placed
into once the JavaScript is downloaded.
Interpreted, all the initializers run.
You know that's sometimes
too long to wait.
So the way things work right now
is the server will render this and
then once the client downloads the code
and you know interprets it and runs it,
it will then blow that away and
render its own stuff.
The hope is that in the future
what the server renders will be
something that is suitable for
the client to actually connect to and
to kind of pick up from there.
And that will be powerful
because that even further reduces
the time it takes to get up and running.
And furthermore it increases
the ability for the the server,
during its initial render to
pass more information to the UI.
About like,
this is the currently logged in user, and
really passing some application state to
kind of, help pick up a little bit faster.
And this is a big improvement because
with single page apps in general,
one of the major pain points
is this initial page load and
Fastboot directly
addresses this pain point.
So, I think we talked a little bit
about Andens earlier in the course.
The concept is very similar to,
concept of the same name and realms.
And the idea is to have modular
pieces of an application
which will have their own routing,
their own models, adapter, serializers.
Really a full fledged application that you
can mount in some way in your router and
have that encapsulated
engine be responsible for all behavior
in that subsection of your app.
There's talk about potentially
loading this code asynchronously.
So you only paid the overhead
of downloading the code for
the blog and in the event that
you actually go into a route,
pivot into a route that is in the blog.
And so this will increase
further that initial startup
time because we're no longer necessarily
going to need to ship the entire app.
And have you download everything
in one big massive file.
And also is gonna be great for
large teams and
this is for you know big tech companies.
The idea of shipping individual engines or
having separate CD pipelines for
sub-sections of an application.
The working model scales up
a little bit better than having 50,
or 80, or 100 people kind of dealing with
the same router, and with the same store,
and having to do their customizations,
and stepping on each other a little bit.
And that, that is sort of inevitable when
you have, you know, little bottlenecks,
they're usually like single objects
that people need to touch over and
over again with a very large
number of contributors.